I built a multiservice AI platform where users access services like Article generation, 
Image generation, Background removal, resume review. It is plan-based access control system where free user gets 
10 free usage daily for 2 services. Premium user gets unlimited usage till 1 year. 

In the backend I used Node.js and Express.js, in frontend I used React.js and for Database I used PostgreSQL.

I created 2 tables users and creations. 

I used OAuth + OpenId for authentication and authorization was built on the top of the data carried by JWT token.

I implemented redis caching for storing AI generaed data for 24 hours and user's creations until the new creation is created.

I implemented rate limiting so that API calls are not abused. Users can only send 10 request per minute.

For Payment process I used stripe.

When user wants to access AI service, the request is sent to the backend along with the JWT token, auth middleware verifies JWT token 
to authenticate the user and check its plan, after that rate-limiter middleware checks if the user has done less than 10 requests 
per minute or not. Then the controller function receives data, builds redis cache key using 'service-type, userId and normalized
prompt', if the key is present then the data is sent from the cache otherwise the external api is called, results are stored in database
new cache-key is created with the same result and then response goes to user.


REDIS IMPLEMENTATION

Redis is used to reduce latency so that frequently re-requested data is served from memory direct instead of database, 
I stored AI-generated data for 24 hours and users creations until the new creation is created.

Redis acts as in-memory cache layer between backend and External APIs as well as the database.

When request comes, I first generate a deterministic cache key using the userId, service type and normalized prompt.
If the key exists in redis then the response is returned immediately.
If not, then the request goes to database, results are saved in redis and then returned to user.


RATE LIMITING IMPLEMENTATION

Rate limiting is implemented to prevent abusing of API calls, and ensure the fair usage across users.

It is implemented as middleware in backend before the request reaches the service logic of APIs.

There are rate-limiters for different services. Like only 3 resume review per minute, 10 articles per minute, and in general 200 
requests per 100 minutes.

I implemented rate limiting using express-rate-limit middleware. I created different limiters for different services based on cost. 
For example, AI text generation is limited to 5 requests per minute, image processing to 3 requests per 2 minutes, and general 
routes to 200 requests per 15 minutes. This prevents API abuse, protects server resources, and reduces AI API costs.

Currently it is memory-based solution and will break in production


OAuth FLOW

When user clicks 'Continue with google', frontend redirected them to Google's OAuth consent.

Google authenticates the user and returns 'code' along with identity claims as part of OpenId connect to the backend.

The backend exchanges the code with the 'id_token'.

The backend verifies the id_token, extracts email and provider_id and checks if the user already exists in the database.

If not the new record of user is inserted in the users table.

Then backend issues its own jwt token and sends it to the frontend with HTTP only cookie

Plan-based authorization is done on the top of data carried by the JWT token which contains user's plan status.


STRIPE PAYMENTS FLOW

When a user clicks 'Upgrade to premium', backend creates checkout sessions and sends url to the frontend.

Frontend then navigates to the url and the user make payment their.

After payment's success, the stripe sends signature to the backend endpoint

backend confirms the signature using stripe secret.

After verification user's plan status is updated to premium.


OOP USE

Encapsulation: Separate modules for authentication, payment, AI services and middleware logic. They hide internal details like
JWT verification, payment verification, service providing logic and redis caching

Abstraction: Routes don't know how authorization middleware, rate limiters and others function works. They are just using it.

Polymorphism: Same interface behave differently according to the plan of user.

No Inheritance

Composition: Application behaviour is built by composing multiple modules together such as middlewares and controller functions
in routes, database and cloudinary configuration modules in server.js file, redis configuration in controllers.

Why PostgreSQL
Because I was handling structured and relational data and it requires strong consistency.
I also needed ACID transaction for stripe payment gateway to process the payments successfully.